# rainmaking.github.io
A website which brings to you tribes from different parts of the world engaging in rain-calling rituals.  We aim for you to reconnect with nature and cherish the sacred bond that civilization once used to share.

<b>PROJECT NAME</b><br>
The Magic of Rainmaking

<b>PROJECT DESCRIPTION</b>
<p>Throughout history, many tribes and sects across the globe have shared a very deep bond with mother Earth and would sense it as a living being. They could feel and connect with nature like no one else. One such practice involved rituals of rainmaking in which tribes established a bond with nature and invoked rain through their earnest and beautiful singing. Nowadays, we are losing this bond and treating our planet rather harshly. Thus, <i>The Magic of Rainmaking</i> is a website which presents a soundscape of a few tribes from different parts of the world engaging in rain-calling rituals. Through this site, we aim for the users to reconnect with nature and remind themselves of the beautiful bond that they can share with nature.</p>
<p>We wanted to keep our site a simple one, with not a lot of elements on the pages, so that it is easy to navigate and the user can primarly focus on listening to the rain-invoking tribal songs and get inspired by that. Hence, the home page just containins a box with a little description about are project and its aim, and then the user can browse to other pages through the navigation menu. We also wanted the user to feel as close to nature as possible and conect with the tribes while navigating the site, hence we chose backgrounds which pictures forests, leaves, farmlands, village houses etc. and some of them being gifs to give a more realistic experience. The background sound of chirping birds on homepage was also an attempt to make user feel as if they are already in a soundscape which has taken them on journey through the wonders of nature.</p>
<p>For the tribe pages, we wanted to present the user with not only the audio piece of tribes engaging in the rain-calling ritual but also with more information about the tribe (to give more context to what they are exactly hearing). However, we felt that all this information may not necessarily be presented with the song itself. We wanted to restrict the landing portion of the tribe pages to just control buttons for audio and one-line description introducing the tribe. We did not want to crowd this section with any additional information and thus kept the tribe information as a scrollable part after the audio section. We also understand that some users might want to read that information before they hear the song, or while they are hearing it, or afterwards, so we put a little down arrow to indicate they can scroll for more information. This gives user the flexibilty of reading the information whenever they want to or keeping it out of sight if they don't. As for having the control over the soundpiece itself, we did not provide a slider option for the audio because we want the user to hear the song completely without skipping any bits. The rain builds up slowly, gets intense and then dies down as well as the singing stops, and to truely get the experience of this, it is important for the user to hear the piece as a whole. Having said that, we did decide to provide the time of each audio piece so that user is not left in vain wondering how long it will last.</p>
<p>The last very important part of our website is the <i>Make Your Own Rain</i> page. There were many reasons to add this. Firstly, we wanted to add this page to have room for user interactivity and not just limit our website to providing songs and tribe information. After going through all the previous pages of our site, we hope to have inspired the user by now and thus encourage them to try making the rain on their own. We wanted this to give more of a playful feel, where the user can choose to play any number of the different sounds we recorded and try to create a sound which is most similar to that of rain. Secondly, it might be possible for some users to make out that the rain sound effect in the song pieces was not original rain. Hence, through this page, we wanted to tell the user that the rain they just heard was created by us. This not only provides them with context regarding what they heard, but also inspires them to try it out as a creative project like we did. To keep the mood light and engaging, we tried to make it into a quiz and encourage them to guess how we actually recorded the sounds. I believe this page was a very important element of the entire website.</p>

<b>PROCESS</b>
<p>We started off with a simple wireframe which initially consisted of one page and 4 buttons on each corner to play the song of a particular tribe. However, when we were creating the audio piece, we thought it would be nice to have information about the tribe and their ritual and thus we decided to create different pages for each of the tribe songs. We also decided to replace a fourth song with make your own rain page because we thought that would be an interesting element to add.</p>
<p>Choosing the tribes, finding their traditional songs and making the rain sound effects was the main part of our project. We first made a list of the different tribes which performed rain-calling rituals and shortlisted the ones for which we could find native songs, chants, prayers etc. This was important to find as it was not possible for us to sing those songs and do justice to them completely. We wanted this to be as authentic as possible. Hence, we decided to search for tribal songs on the net. In contrast, we decided to record the rain sounds on our own from our surroundings. We did the latter not only because we had to record some audio on our own, but also because it would be fun and interesting to try and create sounds on our own which would resemble rain. It would require us to be creative and really push our skills in Audacity to layer them properly to make the sound as close to rain as possible.</p>
<p>We initially recorded about 20 sounds and then shortlisted 8 of them to be used as rain. We even layered some of the song tribes to give an impression that more and more people were singing. In one of the songs, we took 3 diiferent people singing the same song (a man, woman and a child) and layered them to give an impresion that there's a variety of people singing. This part was hard because the 3 people sang the songs individually and thus their words in a line weren't matching fully, some were slow, some were fast. So I had to break each line into 1-2 words and then sync them.</p>
<p>After we had our audio pieces (though we kept on polishing them till the very end), we started building our website. We started with the home page, then the tribe pages and finally the make your own rain page. After a lot of efforts, the autoplay audio still didn't working for the home page. The browser required a click action for it to work. Hence, we created a little welcome page for a 'click for the experience' button which would work as a cover to reveal our website and also serve the purpose of starting an audio in the background. The make your own rain page was the most challenging one and took a long time to finish. We revised it many times so that the page could capture the idea completely and serve the purpose fully for which it was built in the first place. Initially we just had the individual recordings and gave the user flexibilty to play whatever they wanted to. But having just that actually made it possible for the user to guess what those sounds were and that would suggest our rain is not authentic. This would undermine our project which we really didn't want. So, we decided to embrace the fact that the rain infact is created by us enlighten the user with this information from our end which would not only increase our credibitly but also inspire them to do the same (be creative!)</p>

<b>REFLECTION AND EVALUATION</b>
<p>I am very happy with how our project has turned out! Creating rain on our own was more challenging than it first seemed. It required a lot of time and effort to make the rain sound as realistic as possible. Having many people hear it and give us feedback really helped us in the process. Each time we got something to improve, I personally learnt a lot on how to work on Audacity and I kept unboxing the variety of features it offers for audio editing. With all the effort put in, I am more than satisfied with how the songs finally sound and do definitely think they give an impression of rain falling. I am also happy that I was able to create the effect of rain first drizzling, then intensifying and finally dying down as the song comes to an end. I am happy with my efforts to try matching the intensity of rain with the pitch of each song which I believe makes it more believable that the rain is actually being invoked by the tribe's singing.</p>
<p>As for the website, I believe it captures the theme and idea very well. I am happy with layout we decided upon (simple yet applealing) the backgrounds (nature related) and fonts (which completely fit and justify our concept) and like the vibe it presents. The make your own page was a challenging one but in the end, we managed for it to convey what we really wanted. Initially, we thought that our website was losing credibility by having that so we were thinking of removing it. But we really didn't want to. That page was indeed made for the user to interact with our page and I personally thought it add a good touch to the website. So, I'm really glad we could find a way to keep it and still preserve the authenticity of our project. I believe the new idea for that page was a very good save! We did want to inspire the user through our project and enable them to interact with our website and have fun and this was totally acheived with the revised plan of that page.</p>
<p>I also thourougly enjoyed working in pairs for this project. I think Aisha and I had very similar ideas and shared same concerns. This made it much easier to discuss ideas as well as faults and improve them in time. There was a lot of patience and understanding between us which definitely reflects in the website. We would discuss tiniest of details and give regular feedback on each other's work which made the project all the more fun to do together!</p>
<p>All in all, it was a very enriching and enjoyable experience to work on this project and I am very proud of all our efforts!</p>

